the topic of my speech is budgeting for life, get ready from this moment from this penny.

some day i went shopping with my roommates, after leaving the check-out counter, i picked one item from a girl’s bag and asked her: ‘hey, it’s pretty wrapped up. how much? ’ after long pause with no response, shamefully she said ‘beats me, i seldom care prices.’ the talk was over then there came the one deserved thinking ---- when we go into raptures at the sight of luxuries, have we ever thought of our finance management?

ladies and gentlemen,

these years, under parents’ loving care, college students have taken purchase for granted. however, independent survival’s just around the corner. when youths hanging out in starbucks over a cup of coffee, when we lavishly squandering parental sponsor on brand names, when financial ability falling into neglect in textbooks, when the financial crisis engulfing the entire world, real life’s airing alarms. the ability in well managing finance matters relates to not only our present living condition, but also our future ideal realization. here thanks to this arena that i can share with you what i’ve learned during college life on finance management.

initially, for us students, a penny saved is a penny earned. luxuries make us happy, but we need to balance whether these fancy goods are worth the price. actually it’s easy to save money. just make a list of what we have to pay for each month, such as your meal card, transportation card and other basic expenses. apart from the list, set aside some money for your preferable entertainment or social contact as planned. only well budget for today can we well budget for future. particularly, be honest to your finance plan and we’ll see.

what follows is study comes first. distinct performance on study brings generous scholarship. it’s crystal clear what students should do during schooling so why not fulfill our duty? maybe in business one could work hard with no gains, but in university one’s efforts on study can always be paid off, with high respect and good reward. what’s more, study of investment and finance theories guides us to make rational use of resources on the right track.

besides, part-time job is ought to be part of our college life. in terms of money management, part-time job teaches us how challenging to earn money and helps develop thriftiness. in addition, concurrently holding a job and study cultivates us to make sensible use of our time as well as our money. furthermore, we might as well set foot in investment market, not for *** a fortune, but for more understanding in case of future need.

now we are students supported by family, but the day we have to make living and manage life by ourselves will come eventually. till now i have gained more than twenty thousand rmb from scholarship and part-time jobs and as far as you are willing to, you can be better. we always say opportunity knocks at one’s door that is well-prepared. finance practice in university is the best internship to get ready for future financial challenges.

ladies and gentlemen, from now on, please reflect on ourselves, stop hankering after material comfort and unrealistic compare. attempt to count every cent and make every cent count, because the future we seek for is well worth today’s efforts.

